I studied the hooks on over 1,300 viral
Instagram reels. And in today's episode,
I'm going to share with you everything
that I found. But first and foremost,
why did I go on this crazy endeavor?
Well, because the hook is the most
important part of your content. If your
content is super valuable, educational,
hilarious, funny, entertaining,
captivating, whatever, but the hook
doesn't actually do its job and grab
people's attention, then the rest of
your video is a waste. And that's why I
believe that 80% of the time, energy,
and effort that you spend on content
creation should be spent just on the
hook for each of your posts. I promise
you, if you can just improve your hooks
and nothing else about your posts, your
posts overall will perform better, get
more engagement, more views, and your
overall following will grow because of
it. I'm always on the lookout for great
hooks and content creators who
consistently create great hooks. I'm
saving them to folders. I'm categorizing
them. I'm writing down the hooks. I'm
analyzing everything on the screen, the
audio, the visual, the text to figure
out what actually makes these hooks
effective and what makes other hooks
flop. Let's begin this conversation
about hooks by talking about the text on
the screen or the words being said.
Often times, these two things will be
interchangeable at the beginning of your
reel. if you're doing a voice over reel
or a talking head reel where you're
actually saying words or if you're doing
a lip-s sync or a B-roll reel where
there's just text being written on the
screen. Either way, this is essentially
the words that are grabbing people's
attention. To equate this to something
that we're all familiar with, this is
like the headline on your newspaper. And
according to these 1300 hooks that I
studied, the average length of the most
viral hooks was 7.7 words long. And
generally speaking, the best performing
hooks were between 5 and 8 words long.
There were also quite a few reels that
performed really well that went as high
as 12 words, but as soon as the reel
went past 12 words and went to 13, 14,
15 plus words in the hook, there were
diminishing returns. Basically, the
longer the hook was, the worse the video
performed. Also, I think it's very
interesting to note that there were very
few hooks that were less than four words
long. And I think that's because it's
just hard to get a point across. It's
hard to have a complete sentence with
two or three words. Of course, there are
hooks like unpopular opinion or stop
scrolling that grab attention with just
two words, but those seem to be more of
the outliers that were few and far
between. Besides the length of 5 to
eight words long, according to a chat
GPT reading comprehension analysis of
all of these hooks, the average hook
from this list was below a fifth grade
reading level, which is in alignment
with what I normally teach. I oftentimes
advise people that their hooks or even
the entire text, everything they say in
their content should be at or below a
fifth grade reading level. And that's
for a few reasons. Number one, to be
quite frank, reading comprehension is
lower than you would expect. That's why
there was that famous show in the 2000s,
Are You Smarter Than a Fifth Grader? And
it was really funny because seemingly
everyone was not smarter than a fifth
grader. Yeah, that's true. That's the
unfortunate reality that we live in.
Also, number two, and probably more
realistically on social media, it's not
that all of your followers and customers
are just idiots, it's that they're
distracted. They're seeing thousands
upon thousands of videos every single
day. And so, if your hook includes some
fancy words, some vocab that's over
their head, insider lingo, or an acronym
that they don't already know, then
they're going to be confused. And when
you confuse, you lose. They will scroll
away before trying to open up the
dictionary and figure out what your hook
means. So, dumb it down, keep it simple,
and remember the drunk grandma. The
drunk grandma is a marketing principle
that basically means that your
marketing, your content, your videos
should be so easy to understand that a
drunk grandma could understand it
without any extra context or any extra
background. So whether you want to think
of a fifth grader or a drunk grandma,
that's how simple your hooks should be.
The other interesting note about the
text on screen or words being said is
that on average, negative hooks far
outperformed their positive
counterparts. And this totally makes
sense when we think about human
psychology. At the end of the day,
content, social media marketing is just
human psychology, right? It's humans
trying to convince other humans to buy
something. It's humans trying to grab
the attention of other humans. It's just
psychology. And it is in our nature as
human beings. We are hardwired to pay
more attention to the negative than the
positive. We are on average more likely
to notice the threats in our environment
than the beautiful things in our
environment. So when I say negative
words, I mean words like don't, stop,
avoid, cancel, stay away from, no, loss.
Those sorts of things are more likely to
grab attention in the hook than their
positive counterparts. Now, hopefully
everything we've talked about so far is
already helpful for you, but this is
really just scratching the surface when
it comes to hooks. In reality, the
visual on the screen matters so much
more than the words being said or the
words being written. That's why again to
reference modern newspapers when you
look at them the front cover has a big
headline piece of text but then below it
is a ginormous picture especially after
a big event like the Super Bowl or an
election. There's always a giant photo
on the cover because at the end of the
day we are visual creatures and
Instagram specifically is a visual
platform. And so often times the mistake
that us content creators and business
owners make is we focus so heavily on
the words in our hook which yes matters
but we forget about the visual. We
forget about what is actually on the
screen and that is going to be worth so
much more. There's that old cliche of a
picture is worth a thousand words. Well
yeah those first few frames of your
video are worth so much more than
whatever text you write on the screen.
The viewer is going to comprehend the
visual and they're going to take in what
is on the screen before they're able to
skim and read the hook or the headline
text that you have added. In fact,
according to Mr. Beast in a really great
interview that he did on Colin and
Samir's podcast with Mark Zuckerberg
himself, I highly recommend watching
their entire conversation. Mr. Beast
said his most viewed videos on Instagram
and Facebook are the videos where he
doesn't speak at all. my most viewed
reels on your platforms, my most viewed
just short form on your platform are
ones where I don't speak.
>> Now, during the segment of the
interview, he's primarily talking about
how speaking English limits his content
because it can't reach people who don't
speak English automatically. As soon as
he speaks a word in English, the
algorithm knows that and thus won't show
his post to people who don't speak
English. I mean, think about yourself
right now. If you only speak one
language, do you ever really see posts
that are in a different language on your
Instagram feed? Probably not. And if you
do, it's probably super infrequent. And
this interview came out March 27th,
2025, which is my birthday, by the way.
But now we're almost a year later. And
it's funny because Mr. B said that the
number one thing that he wants changed
on the Meta platforms is the ability to
use AI to automatically dub and
translate reels, which is a thing. By
the way, in case you haven't seen any of
my recent episodes breaking down the
latest Instagram news, one of the big
new changes that they've made on
Instagram in the last few months is that
now your reels can be automatically
translated and dubbed into, I believe it
is, nine different languages. So, if you
post in English, if you just check the
box to autorate, someone who speaks
Spanish or someone who speaks Hindi will
be able to watch that reel in their own
language and it will sound like your
voice, but your voice will be speaking
their language. And they'll even use AI
to kind of dub your mouth so that it
looks like your lips are saying those
words. I digress. That's not the point
I'm trying to make. The point I'm trying
to make is simply that the visual
matters more than the text or words that
you are saying in your reels. As an
absolute baseline, the visual in your
hook needs to relate to what your reel
is about. For example, if I'm a fitness
coach who's making a talking head reel,
I should not be sitting at a desk. I
should not be sitting in my car. I
should be in the gym. if not actively
weightlifting or working out while I'm
speaking the reel. I'll play you an
example of what that could look like
right now. Stop using bad broll. If you
want your reels to get more views, then
the visual has to match what the real is
about. If you're a fitness creator, you
should be doing the exercise while
talking about it. If you're a food
blogger, then you should be eating your
food in the real. If you're a real
estate agent, then you should be touring
the home while you talk about the home.
Now, if you struggle to record this
B-roll content, don't worry. I've got
you covered. We are including a free
B-roll library as part of our Insta Club
trial. For just $7, you can get access
to the entire Insta Club for 2 weeks and
get an entire library of B-roll videos.
Comment the word me right now and I'll
send you the link. Are you ready to take
your business's marketing to the next
level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one
marketing and CRM platform that's
designed to help you connect with
customers, boost engagement, and grow
your business smarter. With Brevo, you
can manage all of your customer
interactions in one place. Nurture leads
with their built-in CRM. Reach your
audience through email and SMS and keep
them coming back with powerful
automations. But here's where it gets
really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI
assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter
campaigns by suggesting personalized
content, optimizing send times, and even
analyzing performance data to improve
your strategy in real time. It's like
having a marketing expert on your team
who works 24/7. And of course, Brevo
also offers advanced analytics, seamless
integrations, and AIdriven
personalization. Everything that you
need to create multi-channel campaigns
that hit the mark every single time. Get
started for free today or use code
tribe50 to save 50% off their starter
and standard plans for the first 3
months of the annual subscription. Just
head to www.brevo.com/tribe
and take your marketing further with
Brevo and Aura. If you're someone who
makes a lot of what are called B-roll
reels, where you take just like a
behind-the-scenes B-roll video of
yourself, you add a trending audio or a
song into the background, and then you
write some text on the screen. Well, the
B-roll content needs to relate to what
the reel is about. Because B-roll reels
have become so popular on Instagram, a
huge mistake that a lot of business
owners have been making is taking any
random B-roll of themselves, oftent
times writing in a notebook or typing on
a computer and then they just slap some
text on the screen that is totally
unrelated to what is visually going on
in the reel. So, as a bare minimum,
there needs to be a visual that relates
to what your reel is about. And to take
it a step further and make it even
better, we want to have something
dynamic happening, something changing,
something exciting that is about to
happen. Maybe we're at the climax of the
story and then we're going to jump back
and actually tell the story and end up
at the climax at the end of the reel.
The less cluttered the visual, the
better. The higher contrast the visual,
the better. The brighter the visual, the
better. The more saturated the visual,
the better. The more that you can direct
people's eyes through pointing a finger
or using an arrow, the better. The more
you can make things big, bold, easy to
read, and in people's face, the better.
If we're thinking about the visual in
the same way that we're thinking about
the text, the visual needs to be easy to
understand in a short amount of time,
just like the text needs to be easy to
understand in 5 to 8 words. If you can
have some sort of problem, impending
challenge, or negative visual, that will
grab attention more than a positive
visual. And ultimately, if you were to
take a screenshot half a second into
your reel and show it to a drunk
grandma, would she have a pretty good
understanding of what's going on or
would she be totally lost? With all that
being said, and now that you know how to
fish, I'm going to give you some fish as
well. And what I mean by that
specifically is I've broken down the
1300 viral hooks into 15 different
categories that you can use as
inspiration and repeatable formats for
your own hooks. Also, by the way, if you
just want 25 free ideas, I'll put a link
down in the show notes below. We have a
free guide that has 25 viral Instagram
hook ideas that you can use as
plug-and-play hooks in your future
reels. Totally free to download. I'll
put the link in the show notes. But with
that being said, let's get started with
the first template. The first template
is what I'm going to call a pattern
interrupt hook. These are hooks where
basically our expectation is broken.
People are doom scrolling. Their brain
is turned off. They're brain rotting and
they're just scrolling, scrolling,
scrolling, seeing the same boring hook,
the same boring video one after the
other. But if you can do something to
break the norm, break their
expectations, or grab their attention
that is out of the ordinary, it's a
great way to stop the script. For
example, maybe there's a sudden movement
at the beginning of your reel, like a
camera zoom or an effect or a dropping
phone or something that is striking
across the screen and grabbing their
attention. Maybe there's an abrupt and
direct statement like the one I said
earlier, "Stop scrolling." Maybe there's
some sort of visual anomaly that we
wouldn't expect, like your video is
upside down, or it's super zoomed in on
your face, way closer than we would ever
expect, or most of your reels are filmed
in your home and suddenly you're out in
an open field and you're 300 ft away
from the camera. Or maybe there's some
sort of sound effect at the beginning of
your reel that's different than what
people would normally expect. Do be
careful with the sound option because
number one, if you have a sound that is
too loud, it can annoy people and
there's basically an unexpected pop and
they're just going to scroll away
because of the annoyance. Or you also
have to be careful with using sound as a
hook because a lot of people watch
Instagram on mute. And so if you're
relying on some little sound effect at
the beginning of your reel to grab
attention and people are watching on
mute, they're not even going to hear the
sound effect.
If you All right, that right there was
called a millennial pause. It is one of
the most common Instagram mistakes made
by people who were born before the year
2000. Friendly reminder that most of
what you're seeing on social media is
fake. This mic isn't plugged in. This is
a canvas, not a bookshelf, and I'm not
in a fancy office. I'm in a closet. Hook
category number two is what I'm going to
call the contrarian hook. These hooks
are the ones that go against the grain.
They're the unpopular opinions or the
controversial hot takes. Maybe you're
going to tell people to stop doing
something that everyone else is telling
them they should do. Maybe you're going
to tell people that something that they
believe is good is actually bad. Maybe
you're going to debunk a myth that
people have believed for years or tell
them that they're wrong if they believe
X, Y, and Z. Basically, humans are
hardwired to react to threats or
disagreements. And so, when you say
something that they disagree with or
that they might perceive as a threat,
they're going to continue watching your
reel, either to hear your argument or to
get some ammunition for their own
argument that they're going to try to
make in the comments. Don't make daily
posts. Post daily? Yes. Create daily?
No. Post daily.
>> Still can't believe colleges are
stilling going. Oh, it's social. Kids
need to go.
>> For the last few years, I've been using
Notion to basically organize my entire
life. It's so much more than just a
to-do list app. It's truly a one-stop
shop for organizing any area of your
life or business. And it's not just
great at organization, it's also great
at automations as well. There's so many
complex things that you can do and build
that can happen automatically and
instantly within notion. And now for the
first time, they are introducing Notion
AI agents. The new notion custom agents
will allow you to automatically perform
advanced tasks without you even having
to lift a finger. For example, I built a
notion custom agent that automatically
pulls the link to any reel that I have
posted and then it pulls out the text
that I say or the text on the screen in
the first few seconds of the reel.
Basically, it pulls out my hook and then
it's able to look at how that post
performed and compare it to the hook,
which allows me to see which hooks are
actually working so that I can reuse
them and tweak them for future reels.
Notion is an AI powered connected
workspace for teams. Notion brings all
of your notes, docs, and projects into
one space that just works. It's
seamless, flexible, powerful, and with
AI builtin, you spend less time
switching between different apps and
tools and more time creating great work.
Now, with Notion's custom agents, busy
work that used to take hours, or let's
be honest, didn't really get done at all
runs itself. The easiest way to think
about the difference between a custom
agent and normal AI is that normal AI
requires you as the human to prompt it.
But custom agents work for you 24/7
behind the scenes without you having to
lift a finger. But don't just take my
word for it. Notion is used by more than
half of Fortune 500 companies and some
of the fastest growing companies in the
world, like Open AI, the company behind
Chat GPT. Try custom agents now at
notion.com/byt.
That's all lowercase notion not.com/bbyt
to try custom agents today. And when you
use my link, you're supporting our show.
Again, notion.com/bbyt.
Hook idea number three is the curiosity
gap hook. And this one is one that's
definitely going to take some practice
because the curiosity gap is one where
you really have to find the sweet spot.
You have to find that Goldilocks zone.
If we're thinking of this as a gap
between two cliffs and you have someone
who's on one cliff and you want them to
make the jump to the other cliff and
that jump signifies them watching and
engaging with your reel, if the gap is
too small, then they can see over the
jump without having to make the jump,
which means to put it into Instagram
terms, they're not going to watch the
rest of your reel and they're not going
to engage because they know where it's
headed. It's not actually that out of
the norm. There's not that much
curiosity. It's like, n yeah, I got it.
I understand what the rest of this reel
is probably going to be about just from
the hook. So that curiosity gap is too
small of a gap. And then on the other
end of the spectrum, there is the gap
being too wide. Basically, you've
created too much curiosity, too much
ambiguity. It's too confusing or too
vague. And so people aren't going to
make that jump because they have no idea
what the benefit or the reward is for
making said jump. they have no reason
why they want to watch the rest of the
reel because they're lost and confused
in the first few seconds. So again, the
curiosity gap is one that you're going
to have to play around with and it's
going to take some practice just like
all these hooks, but this one especially
is going to take some practice to get
better at. But essentially what you're
doing is you're creating an information
gap that people feel like it needs to be
closed. Here's the same hook three
different ways, and you'll hear how the
curiosity gap changes. Number one, this
changed everything for me. that
curiosity gap is just too wide. Because
yeah, I can understand that something
changed something for you. But if I
don't know who you are, if I don't
already follow you, if I'm not already a
fan, I don't know what your niche is. I
don't really care to stick around and
learn what changed what. It could be
about anything, right? It could be this
changed everything in my figure skating
career. It could be this changed
everything in my Pokemon card
collection. I don't know what it's about
because it's too vague. So that
curiosity gap is too wide. On the other
end of the spectrum, if my hook was
creating a spreadsheet for my Pokemon
cards changed everything in my
collection challenge, I wouldn't want to
watch the rest of the video because the
curiosity gap is too small. There's such
little information that is left out of
that hook. I know what the rest of the
reel is going to be about. The rest of
the reel is going to be about creating a
spreadsheet to track your Pokémon card
collection. And if that's something I
want to do, sure, I'll stick around. But
if that's something I don't want to do,
even though it's probably something I
should do or something I would benefit
from, I will scroll away. If instead I
was in that sweet spot, in that
Goldilock zone, I might say something
like, "This one thing changed everything
about my Pokémon card collection, and
after 4 years, I finally finished."
These curiosity gap hooks create an open
loop, which psychologically our brains
want to finish because there's that
tension there. They want to close the
loop.
>> While you were sleeping, AI created its
own religion. the religion.
>> If you want more followers on Instagram,
there's a sneaky feature that you need
to make sure is turned on. It's called
suggested profile, and you can
>> I'm not trying to look 30, but I still
want to look cute. I thought all these
supplements would make me healthy.
>> Hook template number four is
outcomebased hooks. Like the name
implies, you are leading with the
outcome. So, I might say something like,
"This reel got 2.1 million views. Here's
why." If you're a fitness coach, you
might say something like, "My client put
on 12 pounds of muscle in the last three
months, and here's how he did it without
steroids." The more specific and
concrete you can get in the proof or in
the results that you're giving, the more
likely people are to stick around and
watch. And the results don't have to be
something that is absolutely insane. It
can actually be just as, if not more
effective to use more relatable numbers
that are more realistic because then
people want to stick around. If I say,
"Here's how my client got 17 billion
views on one of their videos," it might
be interesting because it's like such a
crazy high number, but a lot of my
followers are probably going to scroll
away because it's unrealistic, or at
least they believe it's unrealistic for
them. So, using realistic numbers for
this is totally fine.
Hook idea number five is what I'm going
to call the direct address hook. These
hooks directly address or call out
somebody by name. Basically, you are
calling out the ideal viewer of this
reel. You might say something like, "If
you're a mom of three under three, keep
watching." Or, "If you're a solo
entrepreneur trying to figure out
Instagram, listen up." or if you're
scared to death of going into a rock
climbing gym and you're over the age of
30, keep watching. When you get really
specific in calling people out at the
beginning of your video, the people who
align with that are going to keep
watching. They're going to lean in. And
often times, the people who are slightly
adjacent or maybe even the people who
are outside of that target audience are
still going to watch because they want
to figure out if this is going to
pertain to them even though they don't
exactly meet the demographics that you
spelled out at the beginning. A message
to every business owner on Instagram.
Stop expecting your friends to support
your business.
>> I have no excuses. I was totally over
the line.
>> Over the line? You're you you're so far
past the line that you can't even see
the line. The line is a dot to you.
>> Idea number six is one of my favorite
kind of hooks and one of the hooks that
I think is going to be most effective
moving forward. And that is storytelling
based hooks. The one common denominator
in storytelling based hooks is they use
the word I. I almost quit blank last
year. I was stuck at blank. I lost
blank. Humans are hardwired for
storytelling and we're hardwired to
remember stories. In fact, one of my
favorite facts is that stories are 22
times more memorable than facts. So, if
you want to make your reels more
memorable, if you want to be top of
people's minds and stand out, stop
telling facts in your reels and start
telling stories. I once dated a guy who
spent his entire day making email
addresses.
Idea number seven are hook swap hooks. A
hook swap hook is where you basically
take an already existing viral video.
Usually it's of something crazy
happening like someone throwing toilet
paper out of an airplane or a kid doing
parkour and he's about to fall and hit
the ground. And then you seamlessly
transition from this viral intro that is
doing a lot of the things that we've
already talked about with a captivating
visual that's grabbing people's
attention and creating curiosity. And
then you use what's called a match cut
to seamlessly transition into your reel
where you're doing a talking head reel
where you're taking people through the
home that you're a real estate agent for
or you're giving some fitness technique
tip. Now the key to these hook swap
reels is what's called a match cut. And
a match cut is a fancy editing term that
basically means the image on the screen
at the end of the first scene matches or
it's super similar to what's on the
screen at the beginning of the second
clip. So if you're using a hook swap of
a toilet paper being thrown out of an
airplane, then when that first scene
ends and you see the toilet paper kind
of falling out of the sky, you want the
second clip to begin with the toilet
paper finishing its fall. Maybe it's
falling into your lap and you're
catching it. Maybe it's falling out of
the sky and it's hitting you in the
head. Maybe it's falling out of the sky,
landing on the ground, and there's some
message written in the toilet paper. If
you want to watch some examples besides
the ones that I'll play for you in just
a second, one of my favorite accounts
that creates a lot of these hook swap
reels is called Wants and Needs Brand,
and they're selling a gray sweatuit,
gray sweatpants, and a gray hoodie. No
offense to them, but it's not like
they've done anything revolutionary with
their clothing brand in terms of the
actual clothes, but they are crushing it
on social media and thus crushing it in
business because they consistently use
these hook swaps to grab people's
attention in a way to show off their
clothing. By the way, if you want a free
library of these hook swap videos, you
can get one by DMing me on Instagram.
Just go to my Instagram profile, Brock
11 Johnson, and send me the word swap,
and I will send you the link to a
library with over 40 of these hook swap
videos that you can use for free on any
of your future reels.
Viral hooks like this, one of the best
ways to grab attention that you can then
use to sell a product in your
What the
What the heck? It says, "This is a hook
swap." That's right. You can, as someone
who cooks about 95% of their meals at
home, and no, that's not an
exaggeration. Usually the only meal that
Taye and I eat out each week is our
sushi Saturday. What we eat, what we
prepare, it matters a lot to us. And
that's why I'm so excited to introduce
you to our newest sponsor, HelloFresh.
HelloFresh allows you to choose between
more than 100 recipes every single week,
including cuisines from all around the
world and bigger portions that satisfy
everyone. Over 35 of those weekly
recipes are high protein recipes, which
fires me up and it allows me to feel
great because I know that I'm eating
wholesome ingredients like sustainably
sourced seafood and 100% antibiotic and
hormone-free chicken. And of course,
most important of all is how it tastes.
And let me tell you, it actually tastes
really good. This helps me be a better
business owner because I'm able to eat
meals that taste good and help me feel
satisfied. I don't have to spend as much
time thinking or prepping each meal and
I can make sure that I'm hitting my
protein goals in the process. Go to
hellofresh.com/bt10fm
to get 10 free meals plus a freezing
knife, which is a $144.99
value on your third box. This offer is
only valid while supplies last. Free
meals applied at discount on your first
box for new subscribers only and varies
by plan. Hook idea number eight is
authority or databacked hooks.
Basically, the title of the podcast that
you're watching right now and the first
sentence that I said in this podcast was
exactly this. I told you how in order to
make this video, I analyzed 1300
Instagram reels. That's basically
saying, "Don't trust me, trust the data,
and here's what the data says." You
could also say, "According to blank, you
could name some prominent figure or some
prominent company. You could quote them.
You could quote a study that you found."
Basically, you're not relying on your
own expertise. You're not telling people
that they should trust you. You're
saying, "Here's what this really trusted
figure, this really well-known person or
company said according to the World
Health Organization, according to the
FDA, according to the White House,
according to X Study, according to Y
data." Basically, you're just giving
some credibility to reduce the automatic
skepticism that anyone is going to have,
especially when they're a stranger and
they're viewing one of your reels. It
took me 10 years of posting on Instagram
to get my first 60,000 followers. And
then it took me just one month to get
60,000 more followers. The reality is
you never know when you're this close to
your next breakthrough. So
idea number nine is the bold claim hook.
This is somewhat similar to hook idea
number two, the contrarian hook. But
basically in this one, you're making a
specifically bold claim and you're
stating the whole claim in the hook
itself. This is where you're going to
make a strong declarative statement and
the certainty that you have in this
statement is going to signal your
expertise. Now, I will say while every
opinion on social media nowadays is an
unpopular opinion and no matter what you
say, people will be arguing. If it is
truly a bold claim that you're going to
make, make sure that it is a hill that
you are willing to die on. Make sure
that it's something that you actually
believe and something that you are ready
to argue with people about in the
comments or that you are willing to
defend your point of view on. Post
everything three times. If you posted a
real more than 60 days ago, post it
again today. And
>> D students for sure end up being
millionaires more than A students. D
students are smart.
>> Speaking of point of view, hook idea
number 10 is the relatable hook. And the
relatable hook is the one that you see
on memes. It's the ones that say when
you dot dot dot or POV, me when I dot
dot dot. Again, these usually work the
best on memes, funny content, simple
content, trends, but they can also be a
great way to introduce a story that
you're going to tell. When you use one
of these relatable hooks, the mirror
neurons in your viewers's minds fire,
and they don't see you or imagine you in
this scenario, they imagine themselves
in this scenario. So, it's a great way
to create empathy and trust with your
audience.
Once again, speaking of POV, hook idea
number 11 is quite literally POV hooks.
And what I mean by point of view hooks
is the video feels like it was filmed
from the point of view of the viewer.
These reels kind of create a voyeristic
effect where it can feel like you are
actually in the scene and whatever is
about to happen you weren't supposed to
know or it's actually authentically
happening. It wasn't scripted. It wasn't
planned. It was just something that
happened to be filmed by someone. One of
the most effective ways to achieve this
point of view look is by adding a piece
of text that looks like it's the classic
Snapchat text. A creator who does a
really great job of this is Citizen the
Artist. And he uses this style hook
quite often to make an introduction to
his own music videos, but at the
beginning it feels like it was just
filmed by an innocent bystander. Filmed
by someone across the street in their
car or someone walking their dog who
just happened to catch this moment. And
then he uses a match cut, which again we
talked about earlier, to seamlessly
transition from this Snapchat point of
view into his full music video.
Hook idea number 12 is urgency or
timebound hooks. Before you go to the
gym today, do this. In 2026, dot dot
dot. Before your head hits the pillow
tonight, you need to dot dot dot.
Basically, the urgency around the time
creates pressure and this pressure
creates attention. Breaking Instagram
news. You can now put clickable links on
your reels. But there's a catch.
Now, the biggest game wasn't what you
watched on Sunday. It's the one you're
playing right now. Buying a home. Buying
a home. Obviously, planning your next
move, trying to win without fumbling all
of the details. Number 13 on the list is
list hooks. List hooks are things like
three ways to improve your bench press,
five foods that you should avoid eating,
two things you need to check the next
time you go snowboarding, and basically
these make your audience feel like there
is structured value and predictable
outcomes from your reel, which can feel
a little bit more peaceful and easier to
consume. Basically, people know what
they're going to get, and so they're
more likely to watch the rest of the
video. Three rules for viral reels.
Number one, the miniskirt rule. Your
post should be long enough to cover
Idea number 14 is comparison hooks.
Comparison hooks are all about showing a
difference rather than just telling your
audience about a difference. And it's a
really easy thing to do on Instagram by
putting up a photo or a video and saying
me before I did X, Y, and Z. Me before
walking 10K steps a day. And just that
text alone implies and lets your
audience know that there is probably
going to be an after you started walking
10k steps a day. Another great way that
you can do a comparison style hook is
with a split screen where you have
different visuals on the top and bottom.
It's a visually interesting break the
norm style hook because that's not what
most reels are. Most reels are just a
single video full screen. But now we
have two splitting the screen. And if
they're comparing or contrasting
different lifestyles or different
outcomes or before and afters, we're
more likely to stop and compare
ourselves. I only post reals. I post a
mix of reals, carousels, and photos.
Most of my
And finally, last but not least, the
15th hook idea that I have for you is
identity hooks. Identity hooks are
similar to the calledout hooks that we
talked about earlier, where you're
saying, "If you're a small business
owner, keep watching. If you're a
beginner snowboarder, keep watching."
But instead, with these, you're not
going to just use language that directly
describes them, like a small business
owner, someone over the age of 30.
You're going to talk about the way they
identify. And what I mean by that is
you're going to use words like this.
Good snowboarders always do this. Lazy
moms start their day like this.
Disciplined entrepreneurs never do dot
dot dot. This works on a psychological
level because people will keep watching
to either make sure that they align with
the positive trait or make sure that
they don't align with the negative
trait. I post 7second reels. I post 7 to
15second reels. I stick to the miniskirt
rule. I don't stop using bad bro B-roll.
If you want your reels to get more
views, then the visual has to match what
the reel is about. If you're a Thank you
so much for watching today. I completely
forgot to ask you to subscribe. So, if
you've watched this far in the video,
make sure you hit subscribe because
obviously you like videos about growing
on social media. And as always, happy
networking.